docs(fileselect) add KB with Loader (#2002)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/fileselect-loader.md

---

> title: How to Show Progress during FileSelect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to Show Progress During File Select
```

> description: Is there a predefined method to show that a file selection process is ongoing? How to display progress to users when selecting a large number of files at once?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to show that a file selection process is ongoing? How to display loading progress to users when selecting a large number of files at once?
```

type: how-to

> page_title: How to show the users that a file selection process is ongoing?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: How to Show Progress Animation When Using FileSelect
```

slug: fileselect-kb-loader
position:
tags: telerik, blazor, fileselect, loader, progress
ticketid: 1639447, 1639232
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Product</td>

>       <td>FileSelect for Blazor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <td>FileSelect for Blazor</td>
```

    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Description

How to show progress to end-users when using FileSelect and a large number of files are being selected at once? When it comes to bigger files the selection process is slow so how to indicate that the process is ongoing?

## Solution

> You can use the [`Loader`]({%slug loader-overview%}). Set the Loader `Visible` parameter to `true` in the FileSelect `OnSelect` event. The Loader will display while the files are being handled, so that the app is more user-friendly when using larger files. When you show the Loader in a method, which is blocking the UI thread with synchronous operations, the Loader may not appear when expected. This is why you can add a small delay, which helps Blazor refresh the UI while the `OnSelect` handler is executing.

Reviewer: Also suggest a LoaderContainer. The benefit is that it can cover the whole page or the FileSelect.

https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/loadercontainer/overview#fill-a-parent-container

> You can use the [`Loader`]({%slug loader-overview%}). Set the Loader `Visible` parameter to `true` in the FileSelect `OnSelect` event. The Loader will display while the files are being handled, so that the app is more user-friendly when using larger files. When you show the Loader in a method, which is blocking the UI thread with synchronous operations, the Loader may not appear when expected. This is why you can add a small delay, which helps Blazor refresh the UI while the `OnSelect` handler is executing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [`Loader`]({%slug loader-overview%}). Set the Loader `Visible` parameter to `true` in the FileSelect `OnSelect` event. The Loader will display while the files are being handled, so that the app is more user-friendly.

When you show the Loader in a method, which is blocking the UI thread with synchronous operations, the Loader may not appear when expected. To avoid this, add a small delay, which helps Blazor refresh the UI during the `OnSelect` handler execution.
```

````CSHTML
<TelerikLoader Visible="@LoaderVisible" />

<TelerikFileSelect OnSelect="@OnSelectHandler" />

@code {
    private bool LoaderVisible { get; set; }

    private async Task OnSelectHandler(FileSelectEventArgs args)
    {
        LoaderVisible = true;

>         // allow Blazor to stop execution and re-render the UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // allow Blazor to re-render the UI
```

        await Task.Delay(1);

        foreach (var file in args.Files)
        {
            await HandleFile(file);
        }

        LoaderVisible = false;
    }

    private async Task HandleFile(FileSelectFileInfo file)
    {
        // some long operation here
        await Task.Delay(1000);
    }
}

> ````

Reviewer: Add a See Also section with links to the Loader Overview and FileSelect Events.

---
title: How to Show Progress During File Select
description: How to show that a file selection process is ongoing? How to display loading progress to users when selecting a large number of files at once?
type: how-to
page_title: How to Show Progress Animation When Using FileSelect
slug: fileselect-kb-loader
position:
tags: telerik, blazor, fileselect, loader, progress
ticketid: 1639447, 1639232
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Product</td>
      <td>FileSelect for Blazor</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Description

This KB article answers the following questions:

* How to show progress to end users when using the FileSelect component? Users can select a large number of files at once.

> * How to display a loading animation when handling bigger files in the FileSelect? The selection process is slow so how to indicate that the process is ongoing?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How to display a loading animation when handling larger files in the FileSelect component? The selection is slow, so how to indicate that the process is in progress?
```

* How to show users a progress indicator during file selection?

## Solution

You can use the [`Loader`]({%slug loader-overview%}). Set the [Loader `Visible` parameter]({%slug loader-overview%}#loader-parameters) to `true` in the [FileSelect `OnSelect` event]({%slug fileselect-events%}#onselect). The Loader will display while the files are being handled, so that the app is more user-friendly.

When you show the Loader in a method, which is blocking the UI thread with synchronous operations, the Loader may not appear when expected. To avoid this, add a small delay, which helps Blazor refresh the UI during the `OnSelect` handler execution.

> Another option is to use the [`LoaderContainer`]({%slug loadercontainer-overview%}). The benefit is that it can cover the whole page or [cover just the FileSelect]({%slug loadercontainer-overview%}#fill-a-parent-container).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option is to use the [`LoaderContainer`]({%slug loadercontainer-overview%}). The benefit is that it can overlay the whole page or [cover part of the page that contains the FileSelect]({%slug loadercontainer-overview%}#fill-a-parent-container).
```
